[IMP] helpdesk: combine and update invoice time docs (#3974)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/services/helpdesk/advanced/track_and_bill.rst

=================

> Track & Bill Time

Reviewer: No ampersands, please.
```
Track and bill time
```

> Track & Bill Time

Author: @StraubCreative For the record, the ampersands were not a creative flourish, I included them to match the UI 😂
Should I just leave them out of headings, or out of the doc entirely?

> Track & Bill Time

Reviewer: Ah good q. Honestly I think it might be one of the tricky areas of the style you use where you map out the UI with headings (as opposed to general business case for heading and use guilabels in body content). Could go either way with this one, your call 😜

> Track & Bill Time

Author: I spoke with @samueljlieber and he confirmed that they won't cause any rst issues, so I am going to remove them from headings, but will leave in any direct ui references just to keep consistent 👍

=================

> *Odoo Helpdesk* provides teams the opportunity to track the amount of hours spent working on a
> ticket, and to bill a customer for that time. Through integrations with the *Sales*, *Timesheets*
> and *Accounting* applications, customers can be charged once the work is completed, or before it
> has even begun.

Reviewer: Note for all:
@ksc-odoo @jero-odoo @samueljlieber 
Italicize only the app name, not Odoo.

```suggestion
Odoo *Helpdesk* provides teams with the ability to track the amount of hours spent working on a
ticket, and to bill a customer for that time. Through integrations with the *Sales*, *Timesheets*
and *Accounting* applications, customers can be charged once the work is completed, or before it
has even begun.
```

Note for reviewers:
@ksc-odoo @hojo-odoo @meng-odoo  please use the **Add a suggestion** (`Cmd + G`) feature on GitHub UI. It's not always clear what suggestions are or what's being changed in the revised version. Also add in a small description at the top to indicate what the change is and why (if needed).

:guilabel:`Service`. Set the :guilabel:`Invoicing Policy` to :guilabel:`Prepaid/Fixed Price`. This
means that an invoice can be generated (and payment can be received) for this product *before*
any timesheets entries have been recorded for these services.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-product-prepaid-fixed.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a service product with the invoicing policy set to 'prepaid/fixed'.

Set the :guilabel:`Sales Price`, and confirm the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` is set to
:guilabel:`Hours`.

Invoice prepaid support services
================================

When support services are billed on a fixed price, an invoice can be created before any work is
completed on the issue. In this case, a service product with the invoicing policy set to
:guilabel:`Prepaid/Fixed Price` (like the one created above) would be used.

Create a sales order with prepaid product
-----------------------------------------

To invoice a customer for prepaid support services, first create a sales order (SO) with the
support services product. To do this, go to :guilabel:`Odoo Dashboard --> Sales --> Orders -->

> Quotations --> New`.

Author: Since this is the first use of `Sales order`, I will stick with writing it out. I included the abbr markup later in the doc, but only after including the full term at least once. 
I am not sure where RFQ came from?

> Fill out the :guilabel:`Quotation` with the :guilabel:`Customer` information.

Reviewer 2: You're absolutely right. My mistake. I meant to write "Quotation" as that's the first stage that a Sales Order is in. But, you're right - this is not an RfQ - I apologize for the error. I will go through my comments that incorrectly state that and delete them, so as to avoid any confusion.

On the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab, click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Select the prepaid services
product configured in the steps above. Update the :guilabel:`Quantity` field with the number of
hours. After updating any other necessary information, :guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation. Then
click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`.

Create and send an invoice for prepaid services
-----------------------------------------------

This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window. If a :guilabel:`Down Payment` needs
to be collected, change the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type. Then click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`.
The invoice can now be sent to the customer for payment.

Create helpdesk ticket for prepaid services
-------------------------------------------

Next, navigate to the :menuselection:`Helpdesk` app and select a :guilabel:`Team`. On the
:guilabel:`Pipeline`, click :guilabel:`New` to create a new ticket.

Fill out the ticket information, and enter the :guilabel:`Customer` information. When the customer
name is added, the :guilabel:`Sales Order Item` field will automatically populate with the most

> recent prepaid sales order item that has time remaining.

Reviewer 2: On the blank ticket detail form, give this new ticket a title, and enter in the necessary :guilabel:`Customer` information in the various fields.

When the customer name is added, the :guilabel:`Sales Order Item` field will automatically populate with the most recent prepaid sales order item that has time remaining.

Track hours on helpdesk ticket
------------------------------

Click on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab on the :guilabel:`Ticket`. To track the time spent on this
ticket against the hours sold on the :abbr:`SO (sales order)`, click :guilabel:`Add a line`. Choose
an :guilabel:`Employee`, and enter the number of :guilabel:`Hours Spent`. As new lines are added to

> tab, the :guilabel:`Remaining Hours on SO` is updated.

Reviewer 2: On the *Helpdesk* ticket detail form, click into the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab (next to the :guilabel:`Description` tab).

On the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, Odoo provides the ability to track the time spent on this ticket against the hours sold on the :abbr:`SO (Sales Order). To do that, click :guilabel:`Add a line` and proceed to choose an employee in the :guilabel:`Employee` column. Then, enter the number of hours spent in the :guilabel:`Hours Spent` column.

As new lines are added to the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, the :guilabel:`Remaining Hours on SO` field is updated automatically.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-remaining-hours-total.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a ticket with an emphasis on the remaining hours on an SO.

.. note::
   If the number of hours on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab goes over the number of hours sold, the
   :guilabel:`Remaining Hours of SO` will turn red.

As hours are added to the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, they are updated in the :guilabel:`Delivered`

> field on the :guilabel:`Sales Order`.

Reviewer 2: As hours are added to the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, they are also updated in the :guilabel:`Delivered`
field on that specific :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)`, as well.

Invoice post-paid support services
==================================

When support services are billed based on the amount of time spent on an issue, an invoice cannot

> the total number of hours required to solve the problem have been entered on a timesheet. In this

Reviewer 2: I'm not quite sure how this sentence should sound, as I don't have any in-depth knowledge of the Helpdesk app. 

"...an invoice cannot the total number of hours..."

case, a service product with the invoicing policy set to :guilabel:`Based on Timesheets` (like the
one created above) would be used.

> Create a sales order with a time tracked product

Reviewer 2: Create a sales order with a time-tracked product

------------------------------------------------

To invoice a customer for post-paid support services, first create a sales order (SO) with the
support services product. To do this, go to :guilabel:`Odoo Dashboard --> Sales --> Orders -->

> Quotations --> New`.

Reviewer 2: To invoice a customer for post-paid support services, first create a :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)` with the desired
support services product. 

To do this, go to :menuselection:`Odoo Dashboard --> Sales app --> New`, which reveals a blank :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)` form.

> Fill out the :guilabel:`Quotation` with the :guilabel:`Customer` information.

Reviewer 2: Then, proceed to fill out the :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)` form with the necessary :guilabel:`Customer` information.

On the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab, click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Select the post-paid services
product configured in the steps above. After updating any other necessary information,

> :guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation.

Reviewer 2: In the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)`, click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Then, select the desired post-paid services product, which was configured using the aforementioned steps.

After updating any other necessary information, click the :guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the quotation. Doing so converts the :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)` into a :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)`.

.. note::
   Unlike with the prepaid services quotation, Odoo will not allow an invoice to be created at
   this time. (Since no services have been performed, nothing has been *delivered*, therefore there

>    there is nothing to invoice).

Reviewer 2: ...this time. This is because no services have been performed. In other words, nothing has been *delivered*. Therefore, this is nothing to invoice.

Create a helpdesk ticket for time-tracked services
--------------------------------------------------

To record a :guilabel:`Timesheet` entry, go to the :menuselection:`Helpdesk` app and select the

> appropriate :guilabel:`Team`.

Reviewer 2: To record a :guilabel:`Timesheet` entry for time-tracked services, go to the *Helpdesk* app, and select the
appropriate :guilabel:`Team`.

If there is already an existing ticket for this issue, select it from the kanban view to go to the
details form. If there is no existing ticket for this customer issue, click :guilabel:`New` to

> create a new ticket and enter the necessary customer information.

Reviewer 2: If there is already an existing ticket for this issue, select it from the *Kanban* view to view the
detail form for that particular ticket. If there is no existing ticket for this customer issue, click :guilabel:`New` to
create a new ticket, and proceed to enter the necessary customer information on the blank ticket detail form.

In the :guilabel:`Sales Order Line` drop-down, select the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` created in the

> previous step.

Reviewer 2: In the :guilabel:`Sales Order Line` drop-down menu, on the ticket detail form, select the :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)` that was created in the previous step.

Track support hours on a ticket
-------------------------------

In order to create an invoice for a product based on timesheets, hours need to be tracked and
recorded. At this point, the service is considered *delivered*. To record hours for this support

> service, click on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab of the :guilabel:`Helpdesk ticket`.

Reviewer 2: ...click on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, found on the detail form of the desired *Helpdesk* ticket.

Click :guilabel:`Add a Line` to record a new entry. Select an :guilabel:`Employee` from the

> drop-down, and record the :guilabel:`Hours Spent`.

Reviewer 2: Then, click :guilabel:`Add a Line` to record a new entry. Select an :guilabel:`Employee` from the
drop-down, and record the :guilabel:`Hours Spent`.

Repeat these steps as needed until all time spent on the issues has been recorded.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-record-timesheet-hours.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a helpdesk ticket.

Create an invoice for hours tracked on a ticket
-----------------------------------------------

After the customer's issue has been solved, and it is determined no additional timesheet entries

> will be made, an invoice can be created and the customer can be billed.

Reviewer 2: ...will be made, an invoice can be created, and the customer can be billed.

> To do this, return to the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` by clicking on the :guilabel:`Sales Order` smart

Reviewer 2: ...abbr:`SO (Sales Order)` by clicking...

button at the top of the :guilabel:`Helpdesk Ticket`.

Before creating the invoice, confirm that the number in the :guilabel:`Delivered` column matches
the total number of :guilabel:`Hours Spent` listed in the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab on the ticket.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-delivered-timesheet-hours.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a sales order with emphasis on the delivered column.

Then click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.

> If a :guilabel:`Down Payment` needs to be collected, change the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type.

Reviewer 2: Then, click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. Doing so opens a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.
If a :guilabel:`Down Payment` needs to be collected, change the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type.

.. important::
   Use the :guilabel:`Timesheets Period` field if this invoice should only include timesheets from
   a certain time period. If this field is left blank, *all* applicable timesheets that have not
   yet been invoiced will be included.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-create-invoice-timesheets-period.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of create invoices pop up showing timesheets period fields.

> Click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. The invoice can now be sent to the customer for payment.

Reviewer 2: When the necessary information has been entered into the appropriate fields, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Invoice`.

Doing so means this invoice can now be sent to the customer for payment.

===================
Track and bill time
===================

Odoo *Helpdesk* provides teams with the ability to track the amount of hours spent working on a
ticket, and to bill a customer for that time. Through integrations with the *Sales*, *Timesheets*
and *Accounting* applications, customers can be charged once the work is completed, or before it
has even begun.

.. warning::

>    Since the :guilabel:`Track & Bill Time` features require integration with other applications,

Reviewer 3: I believe we should italicize _Track & Bill Time_ here rather than a :guilabel:

   enabling them may result in the installation of additional modules (or applications).

   Installing a new application on a *One-App-Free* database triggers a 15-day trial. At the
   end of the trial, if a paid subscription has not been added to the database, it will no longer

>    be active or accessible.

Reviewer 3: Lines in this paragraph can be broken later

Configure track and bill time features
======================================

Before a customer can be invoiced for support services, the *Track & Bill Time* features must first
be enabled. These features must be enabled on each *Helpdesk* team where they will be utilized.

Enable track and bill time on a helpdesk team
---------------------------------------------

To view and enable the :guilabel:`Track & Bill Time` features on a *Helpdesk* team, first navigate
to :menuselection:`Helpdesk --> Configuration --> Teams`. Then select a team from the list or
:doc:`create a new one </applications/services/helpdesk/overview/getting_started>`. This will
reveal a team's settings page.

On the team's settings page, scroll to the :guilabel:`Track & Bill Time` section. Check the boxes
labeled :guilabel:`Timesheets` and :guilabel:`Time Billing`.

> Checking the box for :guilabel:`Timesheets` causes a new field to appear, labeled *Project*.

Reviewer 3: we will apply a :guilabel: to Project here because it's appearance is part of the active instruction

> This project selected in this field is where all the timesheets for this team's tickets will be

Reviewer 3: Grammar: This project... ➡️ The project...

recorded. Click into the drop-down to select a :guilabel:`Project`.

To create a new project where the timesheets will be recorded, click into the drop-down, type a
name for the project, then click :guilabel:`Create`.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-enable-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a helpdesk team settings page emphasizing the track and bill time settings.

Configure service products
--------------------------

When the :guilabel:`Time Billing` feature is enabled, a new product is created in the *Sales* app
called :guilabel:`Service on Timesheets`. This product can be found under :menuselection:`Sales -->

> Products --> Products`. Search for `Service on Timesheets` in the :guilabel:`Search bar`. This is

Reviewer 3: let's lowercase :guilabel:search bar

:guilabel:`Service`. Then, set the :guilabel:`Invoicing Policy` to :guilabel:`Prepaid/Fixed Price`.
This means an invoice can be generated (and payment can be received) for this product before any
timesheets entries have been recorded for these services.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-product-prepaid-fixed.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a service product with the invoicing policy set to 'prepaid/fixed'.

Finally, set the :guilabel:`Sales Price`, and confirm that the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` is set
to :guilabel:`Hours`.

Invoice prepaid support services
================================

When support services are billed on a fixed price, an invoice can be created before any work is
completed on the issue. In this case, a service product with the invoicing policy set to
:guilabel:`Prepaid/Fixed Price` (like the one created above) would be used.

Create a sales order with prepaid product
-----------------------------------------

To invoice a customer for prepaid support services, first create a sales order (SO) with the
support services product. To do this, go to :guilabel:`Odoo Dashboard --> Sales --> Orders -->

> Quotations --> New`, which reveals a blank form.

Reviewer 3: we need a :menuselection: here rather than :guilabel: and I don't feel we need to include _Odoo Dashboard_

> Then, fill out the *quotation* form with the customer information.

Reviewer 3: I don't think the italics on quotation is necessary here

Go to the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the quotation and click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Then,

> select the prepaid services product configured in the steps above. Update the :guilabel:`Quantity`

Reviewer 3: I want to italicize _prepaid services product_ here because we are telling the user to select it, but it is not a static element, rather it is a product that the user created in a previous step

field with the number of hours.

After updating any other necessary information, :guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation. This converts
the quotation into an :abbr:`SO (sales order)`.

Create and send an invoice for prepaid services
-----------------------------------------------

Once the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` has been confirmed, click the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` button.
This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.

This window includes the option to collect a down payment, if necessary, and the format it may be
collected (percentage or fixed amount).

If a :guilabel:`Down Payment` needs to be collected, change the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type.

When the necessary information has been entered, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Invoice`.

The invoice can then be sent to the customer for payment.

Create helpdesk ticket for prepaid services
-------------------------------------------

To create a *Helpdesk* ticket for prepaid services, navigate to :menuselection:`Helpdesk` and

> select a :guilabel:`Team`. This will reveal that team's *pipeline*. Click :guilabel:`New` to create

Reviewer 3: Lets add a :guilabel: to Pipeline since it is part of the active instruction

a new ticket.

On the blank ticket form, create a ticket title, and enter the :guilabel:`Customer` information.

When the customer name is added, the *sales order item* field will automatically populate
with the most recent prepaid sales order item that has time remaining.

Track hours on helpdesk ticket
------------------------------

Time spent working on a *Helpdesk* ticket is tracked on the *Timesheets* tab on the specific
ticket.

On the ticket detail form, click on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab and click :guilabel:`Add a
line`. Choose an employee in the :guilabel:`Employee` column, and enter the number of
:guilabel:`Hours Spent`.

As new lines are added to *Timesheets* tab, the *Remaining Hours on SO* field is automatically

> updated.

Reviewer 3: We will make these :guilabel: s since they are part of the active instruction

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-remaining-hours-total.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a ticket with an emphasis on the remaining hours on an SO.

.. note::
   If the number of hours on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab goes over the number of hours sold, the

>    :guilabel:`Remaining Hours of SO` will turn red.

Reviewer 3: These will be italicized because they are not part of the active instruction

> As hours are added to the *Timesheets* tab, they are automatically updated in the *Delivered* field

Reviewer 3: :guilabel:Timesheets tab & :guilabel:Delivered field

on the :abbr:`SO (sales order)`, as well.

Invoice post-paid support services
==================================

When support services are billed based on the amount of time spent on an issue, an invoice cannot
be created before the total number of hours required to solve the problem have been entered on a
timesheet. In this case, a service product with the invoicing policy set to :guilabel:`Based on
Timesheets` (like the one created above) would be used.

Create a sales order with a time-tracked product
------------------------------------------------

To invoice a customer for post-paid support services, first create a sales order (SO) with the
support services product. To do this, go to :guilabel:`Odoo Dashboard --> Sales --> Orders -->
Quotations --> New`.

Fill out the :guilabel:`Quotation` with the :guilabel:`Customer` information.

> On the *Order Lines* tab, click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Select the post-paid services

Reviewer 3: :guilabel:Order Lines tab

button at the top of the :guilabel:`Helpdesk Ticket`.

Before creating the invoice, confirm that the number in the :guilabel:`Delivered` column matches
the total number of :guilabel:`Hours Spent` listed in the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab on the ticket.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-delivered-timesheet-hours.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a sales order with emphasis on the delivered column.

Then, click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.
If a *down payment* needs to be collected, change the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type.

.. important::
   Use the :guilabel:`Timesheets Period` field if this invoice should only include timesheets from
   a certain time period. If this field is left blank, *all* applicable timesheets that have not
   yet been invoiced will be included.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-create-invoice-timesheets-period.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of create invoices pop up showing timesheets period fields.

When the necessary information has been entered, click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. The invoice can
then be sent to the customer for payment.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/products/uom`

Reviewer 3: No need to include a bullet on a single link in a ..seealso::

field with the number of hours.

After updating any other necessary information, :guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation. This converts the
quotation into a :abbr:`SO (sales order)`.

Create and send an invoice for prepaid services
-----------------------------------------------

Once the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` has been confirmed, click the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` button.
This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.

If no down payment will be collected, the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type can remain as
:guilabel:`Regular Invoice`. If a down payment will be collected, choose between either
:guilabel:`Down payment (percentage)` or :guilabel:`Down payment (fixed amount)`.

When the necessary information has been entered, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Invoice`.

The invoice can then be sent to the customer for payment.

Create helpdesk ticket for prepaid services
-------------------------------------------

To create a *Helpdesk* ticket for prepaid services, navigate to :menuselection:`Helpdesk` and select
a :guilabel:`Team`. This will reveal that team's :guilabel:`Pipeline`. Click :guilabel:`New` to

> create a new ticket.

Author: While I agree that pipeline does need a guilabel, in this case, I do believe 'team' deserves a guilabel, because I am referring to the kanban card for a team on the main Helpdesk dashboard. 
I understand it may seem inconsistent that sometimes team is labeled and sometimes it is not, but is usually the case of referring to a team in general or directing the user to select a team as part of an action.

Choose an :guilabel:`Employee`, add a :guilabel:`Description` of the task, and enter the number of
:guilabel:`Hours Spent`.

As new lines are added to :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, the :guilabel:`Remaining Hours on SO` field is
automatically updated.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-remaining-hours-total.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a ticket with an emphasis on the remaining hours on an SO.

.. note::
   If the number of hours on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab exceeds the number of hours sold, the
   :guilabel:`Remaining Hours of SO` will turn red.

As hours are added to the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab, they are automatically updated in the
:guilabel:`Delivered` field on the :abbr:`SO (sales order)`, as well.

Invoice post-paid support services
==================================

When support services are billed based on the amount of time spent on an issue, an invoice cannot be
created before the total number of hours required to solve the problem have been entered on a
timesheet. In this case, a service product with the invoicing policy set to :guilabel:`Based on

> Timesheets` (like the one created above) would be used.

Reviewer: 🙃 
```suggestion
Timesheets` would be used, like the one created above.
```

Create a sales order with a time-tracked product
------------------------------------------------

To invoice a customer for post-paid support services, first create a sales order (SO) with the
*support services product*. To do this, go to :menuselection:`Sales --> Orders --> Quotations -->
New`.

> Fill out the quotation with the :guilabel:`Customer` information.

Reviewer 3: I don't believe the guilabel on customer is valid here
```suggestion
Fill out the quotation with the customer information.
```

On the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab, click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Select the post-paid services
product configured in the steps above. After updating any other necessary information,
:guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation.

.. note::

>    Unlike with the prepaid services quotation, Odoo will not allow an invoice to be created at this
>    time. That is because no services have been performed. In other words nothing has been delivered.
>    Therefore, there is nothing to invoice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Unlike with the prepaid services quotation, Odoo will not allow an invoice to be created at this
   time. This is because no services have been performed; in other words, nothing has been delivered,
   therefore, there is nothing to invoice.
```

Create a helpdesk ticket for time-tracked services
--------------------------------------------------

To record a *Timesheet* entry for time-tracker services, go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk` and select

> the appropriate :guilabel:`Team`.

Reviewer: no gui
```suggestion
the appropriate team for which these services apply.
```

Author: Same as I mentioned before, this is part of an action so I do not see why there would not be a guilabel for it?

Reviewer: Because this is not the text as it appears on the UI.
See review comment above.

:abbr:`SO (sales order)` created in the previous step.

Track support hours on a ticket
-------------------------------

In order to create an invoice for a product based on timesheets, hours need to be tracked and
recorded. At this point, the service is considered *delivered*. To record hours for this support
service, click on the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab of the ticket.

Click :guilabel:`Add a Line` to record a new entry. Select an :guilabel:`Employee` from the
drop-down, and record the time spent in the :guilabel:`Hours Spent` column.

Repeat these steps as needed until all time spent on the issues has been recorded.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-record-timesheet-hours.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a helpdesk ticket.

Create an invoice for hours tracked on a ticket
-----------------------------------------------

After the customer's issue has been solved, and it is determined no new timesheet entries will be
made, an invoice can be created, and the customer can be billed.

To do this, return to the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` by clicking on the :guilabel:`Sales Order` smart

> button at the top of the :guilabel:`Helpdesk Ticket`.

Reviewer 3: Noting this as I could see the guilabel use either way here, differing to @StraubCreative's expertise 🙂
```suggestion
button at the top of the *Helpdesk* ticket.
```

Author: I will refer to the "After Sales" doc, since there were a lot of references to smart buttons in that one. In that instance, we settled on the following format- 'A :guilabel:`Return` smart button will then be added to the top of the
ticket.'
So guilabel for the smart button, and then just 'ticket' for the actual ticket (no Helpdesk). @StraubCreative, let me know if you disagree. 👍

Reviewer: > I will refer to the "After Sales" doc, since there were a lot of references to smart buttons in that one. In that instance, we settled on the following format- 'A :guilabel:`Return` smart button will then be added to the top of the ticket.' So guilabel for the smart button, and then just 'ticket' for the actual ticket (no Helpdesk). @StraubCreative, let me know if you disagree. 👍

Agree with this.
It's the most straightforward option without forcing the need for unnecessary formatting

:doc:`create a new one </applications/services/helpdesk/overview/getting_started>`. This will reveal
a team's settings page.

On the team's settings page, scroll to the :guilabel:`Track & Bill Time` section. Check the boxes
labeled :guilabel:`Timesheets` and :guilabel:`Time Billing`.

Checking the box for :guilabel:`Timesheets` causes a new field to appear, labeled
:guilabel:`Project`.

The project selected in this field is where all the timesheets for this team's tickets will be
recorded. Click into the drop-down to select a :guilabel:`Project`.

To create a new project where the timesheets will be recorded, click into the drop-down, type a
name for the project, then click :guilabel:`Create`.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-enable-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a helpdesk team settings page emphasizing the track and bill time settings.

Configure service products
--------------------------

When the :guilabel:`Time Billing` feature is enabled, a new product is created in the *Sales* app
called :guilabel:`Service on Timesheets`. This product can be found under :menuselection:`Sales -->

> Products --> Products`. Search for `Service on Timesheets` in the :guilabel:`search bar`. This is

Reviewer: Agreed, in that case it would be...
```
:guilabel:`Search...` bar
```
...since that's the text on the UI.

drop-down, and record the time spent in the :guilabel:`Hours Spent` column.

Repeat these steps as needed until all time spent on the issues has been recorded.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-record-timesheet-hours.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a helpdesk ticket.

Create an invoice for hours tracked on a ticket
-----------------------------------------------

After the customer's issue has been solved, and it is determined no additional timesheet entries
will be made, an invoice can be created, and the customer can be billed.

To do this, return to the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` by clicking on the :guilabel:`Sales Order` smart
button at the top of the :guilabel:`Helpdesk Ticket`.

Before creating the invoice, confirm that the number in the :guilabel:`Delivered` column matches the
total number of :guilabel:`Hours Spent` listed in the :guilabel:`Timesheets` tab on the ticket.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-delivered-timesheet-hours.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a sales order with emphasis on the delivered column.

Then, click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`. This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.

> If a *down payment* needs to be collected, change the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type.

Reviewer 3: I don't think it is necessary to italicize down payment here

Then, fill out the quotation form with the customer information.

Go to the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the quotation and click :guilabel:`Add a Product`. Then,
select the *prepaid services product* configured in the steps above. Update the :guilabel:`Quantity`
field with the number of hours.

After updating any other necessary information, :guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation. This converts the
quotation into an :abbr:`SO (sales order)`.

Create and send an invoice for prepaid services
-----------------------------------------------

Once the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` has been confirmed, click the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` button.
This will open a :guilabel:`Create Invoices` pop-up window.

If no down payment will be collected, the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type can remain as
:guilabel:`Regular Invoice`. If a down payment will be collected, choose between either
:guilabel:`Down payment (percentage)` or :guilabel:`Down payment (fixed amount)`.

When the necessary information has been entered, click :guilabel:`Create Draft Invoice`.

The invoice can then be sent to the customer for payment.

Create helpdesk ticket for prepaid services
-------------------------------------------

> To create a *Helpdesk* ticket for prepaid services, navigate to :menuselection:`Helpdesk` and select
> a :guilabel:`Team`. This will reveal that team's pipeline. Click :guilabel:`New` to create a new
> ticket.

Reviewer: > While I agree that pipeline does need a guilabel, in this case, I do believe 'team' deserves a guilabel, because I am referring to the kanban card for a team on the main Helpdesk dashboard. I understand it may seem inconsistent that sometimes team is labeled and sometimes it is not, but is usually the case of referring to a team in general or directing the user to select a team as part of an action.

I see your point. The issue is that **Team** is not the text that appears on the UI, so it should not be tagged like this. We'll want to find text (as it appears on the UI) to view or click on, which is what actually gets the gui.

_Per the tag's definition / usage on the [guidelines](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#gui-element)_
> Use the guilabel markup to identify any **text** of the interactive user interface (e.g., button labels, view titles, field names, lists items, …).

I think there's a middle ground here to justify the gui. 
It appears each team has a **Tickets** button which leads to the same place and is in context to the instruction here, so how about this?
```suggestion
To create a *Helpdesk* ticket for prepaid services, navigate to :menuselection:`Helpdesk` and click
the :guilabel:`Tickets` button to reveal a specific team's pipeline. Click :guilabel:`New` to create
a new ticket.
```

Author: @StraubCreative That looks good to me👍
